一：开始投入资源/资金之前，需要弄清楚的问题：
   • Identify a specific social problem that you want to focus on 
     确定您想要关注的特定社会问题
   • Gather knowledge & research about the issue and consider its cause/s 
     收集有关该问题的知识和研究并考虑其原因
   • Be able to answer the questions:
     能够回答问题：
     1:Who is suffering? 
     2:What are they suffering from? 
     3:When did the suffering start? 
     4:Where are they located? 
     5:Why are they suffering? 
     6:How many people are affected?
     /
     1:谁在受苦?
     2:他们患有什么?
     3:苦难什什么时候开始?
     4:他们在哪里?
     5:他们为什么受苦?
     6:有多少⼈人受到影响?
    
   #Key Takeaways#
   • Before starting your venture, you should be able to accurately describe the problem and its cause(s)
   #关键要点#
   • 在开始创业之前，您应该能够准确地描述问题及其原因。

二：How do we come up with new ideas to solve the social problem we have identified?
    我们如何提出新想法来解决我们已经确定的社会问题?
  步骤一：
    1:Many problems have already been solved somewhere else in the world
      世界上其他地⽅方已经解决了了许多问题
    2:Thorough research of any/all past attempts
      彻底研究过去的所有尝试
      2.1, Opportunity to build off/modify earlier attempts
           建立/修改早期尝试的机会
      2.2, You owe it to you beneficiaries and supporters
           你欠你的受益者和支持者
    3:The closer your problem to the earlier solution, the more you can piggyback off existing, proven experience
      您的问题越接近早期的解决方案，您就越能够利用现有的、经过验证的经验
    4:There is no need to invent new solutions – the need is to generate funds by helping people
      没有必要发明新的解决方案 - 需要通过帮助人们来筹集资金
    5:Create your own idea only if you cannot find any examples of how other people have tried
      只有当你找不到别人如何尝试的例子时，你才可以创造自己的想法
   步骤二：Developing a Solution
          开发解决方案
    1:Going it alone, or going at it differently may be sheer ego trip
      单独行动,或以不同的方式可能是纯粹的自我旅行
    2:Usually dozens of programs have been tried out there
      通常有几十个程序在那里尝试过
    3:These are widely reported – for example see https://www.ashoka.org
      这些被广泛报道 - 例如参见https：//www.ashoka.org
    4:Look at successes – and see where you may copy parts of what has worked already, what problems they had to overcome BUT don’t blindly copy
      看成功,看看你可以复制的部分工作,有什么问题他们必须克服,但不要盲目地复制
    5:If you can, look at examples of obstacles and disappointments
      如果可以的话，看看障碍和失望的例子
      5.1, What did they do wrong
           他们做错了什么
      5.2, How might you avoid their mistakes?
           你怎么能避免他们的错误？
  步骤三：What if there are no examples we can build off?
         如果没有我们可以建立的例子怎么办？
    1:Revisit root cause questions you asked before: what, how, why, who, when, where
      重新审视您之前询问的根本原因问题：什么，如何，为什么，谁，何时，何地
    2:Now add some not questions:
      现在添加一些不是的问题：
      2.1, Who is not affected and why?
           谁不受影响，为什么？
      2.2, When does it not occur and why?
           什么时候不发生，为什么？
      2.3, Where does it not occur and why? 
           哪里没有出现？为什么？
    3:Time invested increases the richness and depth of understanding
      投入的时间增加了理解的丰富性和深度
    4:What might be changed so that this problem is reduced?
      有什么可以改变，以减少这个问题？
      4.1, What changed conditions will increase the chances problem will not occur?
           什么条件的改变会增加问题不会发生的机会?
  步骤四：Map Actions
         制定行动
    A1:Map out actions you can take that will reduce the incidence of the problem – do as many below as you are able
      制定可以采取的措施，以减少问题的发生率 - 尽可能多地执行以下操作
    A2:How can you:
      你能做的：
      2.1, Remove reasons why people are affected?
           消除人们受影响的原因?
      2.2, Ameliorate or lessen how people are affected?
           改善或减少人们受影响的程度?
      2.3, Reduce or improve on who will be affected?
           减少或改善谁将受到影响?
      2.4, Reduce the times when people will be affected?
           减少人们受影响的时间?
      2.5, Reduce the places where people will be affected?
           减少人们受影响的地方?
    A3:In each case, also ask how your solutions to the questions could be used to generate revenue or funding
       在每种情况下，也要问一问你的问题的解决方案如何能被用来产生收入或资金
    B:Map all answers to your “what to change” questions on a summarizing chart:
      将你“应该改变什么”问题的所有答案映射到一个总结图表上:
    B1:List all the possible changes that will ameliorate the problem
       列出可以改善问题的所有可能的更改
    B2:Think about how you might generate revenues or funding from these changes. Who may be willing and able to provide revenues?
       考虑一下如何从这些变化中获得收入或资金。谁可能愿意并能够提供收入?
    B3:List all the sources of revenues
       列出所有收入来源
    C1:Now select the three to five most impactful changes that you can implement
       现在选择您可以实施的三到五个最具影响力的更改
    C2:Put together a one page statement that describes what changes you want to implement to attack the social problem and to generate funds in doing so
       汇总一页的声明，描述您要实施哪些变更来攻击社会问题并为此产生资金
    C3:This is your first-cut proposed solution!
       这是您提出的第一个解决方案！
    *You may realize your idea will not work and you may need to start again*
    *您可能会意识到您的想法不起作用，您可能需要重新开始*
    
   #Key Takeaways#
   1:No need to invent – Try to build off others’ ideas but tailor them to your specific situation
     无需发明 - 尝试建立其他人的想法，但根据您的具体情况量身定制
   2:Do thorough search for similar projects that have been tried in the past
     彻底搜索过去尝试过的类似项目
   3:Learn what led to success and/or disappointment for these others
     了解是什么导致了其他人的成功和/或失望
   4:Decided what you need to and can change and how to fund this change
     决定你需要改变什么，可以改变什么，以及如何资助这种改变
     
三：What if our solution is wrong?
   如果我们的解决⽅方案错了了怎么办
   步骤一：
     A:Closing Admonition
     A:关闭警告
       1, Make no mistake – building a social enterprise is a LOT of work
          毫无疑问——构建一个社会企业是很多工作
       2，Be prepared to do many starts and stops
          准备做很多启动和停止
       3，Be prepared to do detailed work that has to be redone as you progress
          准备做详细的工作必须重做你的进步
       4，Be prepared to experience and overcome disappointments along the way
          准备经验,克服失望
       5，If you are not willing to do the detailed work, and to revisit it as you progress, all you are likely to do is end up as a failure that has parasitically used scarce resources others could have used better
          如果你不愿意做详细的工作，并且随着你的进步而重新审视它，你可能会以失败告终，因为你寄生地使用了稀缺的资源，而其他人本可以使用得更好
     B:Start Assembling an Advisory Group
     B:开始组建咨询小组
       1:Think of people you must turn to for help, advice, and feedback:
         想想你必须寻求帮助、建议和反馈的人:
         1.1, Early on recruit “on the ground” advisors = who understand the environment: market, culture, local legal issues, politics
              早期招募“实地”顾问=了解环境:市场、文化、当地法律问题、政治
         1.2, Functional advisors to help you with technical and business issues (accounting, law, financing) among others
              功能顾问，帮助您解决技术和业务问题（会计，法律，融资）等问题
       2:Start out with maybe only a few informal advisors, and along the way you can add more
         从一些非正式的顾问开始，你可以添加更多
         

      
Segmentation Part 1: 
   Analyze the hand you are dealt
   分析您的处理理⽅方式
   Identify important market segments into which your target population is fragmented
   确定⽬目标⼈人群分散的重要细分市场
   
   一：Basic Ways in Which Groups of Beneficiaries Might be Fragmented
      受益人群体可能被分割的基本方式
      A, Transactional Accessibility
         交易可访问性
         How easily can they be accessed to experience the benefit?
         他们可以轻松地获得这些好处吗？
         'Differences in segment’s ability to receive the benefit, or your ability to deliver the benefit to the segment'
         '分部获得利益的能力的差异，或者你向分部提供利益的能力的差异'
         A1, Geographic accessibility
             地理可访问性
             1.1, Geographical diversity
                  地理多样性
                  Rural/peri-urban/urban; densely/sparsely populated, desert/forest/mountain/plains, etc.
                  农村/城市周围/城市; 人口密集/人烟稀少，沙漠/森林/山地/平原等
             1.2, Infrastructural conditions that enhance or inhibit the deliverability of the benefit
                  基础设施条件,增强或抑制的产能效益
                  Transportation, telecommunications, educational services, medical services etc. 
                  交通，电信，教育服务，医疗服务等
         A2, Socioeconomic accessibility
             社会经济可及性
             2.1, Economic well-being/status of subgroups
                  经济福祉/分组的地位
                  Income, socioeconomic category, age, gender etc.
                  收入，社会经济类别，年龄，性别等
             2.2, Group whose cultural practices/beliefs influence the way in which the benefit can be experienced/delivered
                  其文化习俗/信仰影响可以体验/交付利益的方式的群体
                  Religion, racial, tribal, customs, habits etc.
                  宗教，种族，部落，习俗，习惯等
         A3, Technical accessibility
             技术可访问性
             3.1, Extent to which groups have access to and/or can interact with the technology
                  组可以访问和/或可以与技术交互的范围
                  Education, training etc.
                  教育，培训等
             3.2, Governance factors
                  治理因素
                  Political party impact membership, suffrage differences, corruption
                  政党影响成员资格，选举权分歧，腐败
         A4, Competitive proximity
             竞争力接近
             4.1, How easily can they receive similar benefits from other competing deliverers
                  他们如何轻易地从其他竞争交付者那里获得类似的好处
             4.2, Level of distress
                  遇险程度
                  Extent to which they have been damaged by the distress 
                  他们在多大程度上受到灾难的伤害
             'A tough one: must part of the population perforce be triaged, at least initially?'
             '一个艰难的问题：至少在最初阶段，必须对部分人口进行分类吗？'

      B, Transactional Acceptability
         交易可接受性
         How willing are they to experience your intervention?
         他们愿意体验你的干预吗？
         B1, Appreciation of benefit
             升值的好处
             Extent to which subgroups understand/value the benefit
             子组理解/重视收益的程度
         B2, Consent requirements
             同意要求
             Subgroups that need approval from others to receive the benefits
             需要其他人批准才能获得收益的小组
         B3, Affordability
             承受能力
             3.1, Whether groups have resources to cover the “costs” of receiving the benefits 
                  团体是否有资源来支付获得福利的“成本”
                  Disposable funds, goods, time
                  一次性资金，货物，时间
             3.2, Locus of control 
                  控制点
                  Subgroups with major differences in Core Self- Evaluation (locus of control, neuroticism, self-efficacy, self-esteem)
                  子组与主要核心自我评价的差异(控制点、神经质、自我效能感、自尊)
      #Segmenting#
       细分
       For your project, first work through the list of segmentation factors to identify any major factors that break your population into meaningfully different segments
       对于您的项目，首先要完成细分因子列表，以确定将您的人口分成有意义的不同细分的任何主要因素
       1, Work through the list, identifying any factors that will substantively influence the segment’s acceptance (willingness to experience the proposed benefit) and their access to your proposed benefit.
          仔细研究这份清单，找出任何实质性影响客户接受度的因素(体验提议的福利的意愿)，以及他们对你提议的福利的接受程度。
       2, TRY TO REDUCE THE LIST TO TOP THREE FACTORS. If each factor yields only two segments, three factors will give you nine segments, whereas four will give you an increasingly unmanageable sixteen!
          试着把清单缩减到前三个因素。如果每个因素只产生两个部分，三个因素将给你九个部分，而四个因素将给你一个越来越难以管理的16 !
       3, As you work through the table, try to identify any remedies that can be used to counter challenges posed by the segment
          当你整理表格时，试着找出任何可以用来应对这部分挑战的补救措施
      #Fragmentation Factors - Summary#
       碎片因素 - 总结
       A, ACCESSIBILITY / 可访问性
          1, Geographic accessibility: 
             地理可及性:
             Rural/peri-urban/urban; densely/sparsely populated; desert/forest/mountain/plains, etc.
             农村/城市周边城市;人口/人烟稀少的;沙漠/森林/山/平原等
          2, Infrastructural accessibility: 
             基础设施可达性:
             Transportation, telecommunications, educational services, medical services etc.
             交通、电讯、教育服务、医疗服务等
          3, Economic accessibility: 
             经济可及性:
             Income, socioeconomic class, age, gender
             收入、社会经济阶层、年龄、性别
          4, Cultural accessibility: 
             文化可及性:
             Religion, racial, tribal, customs, habits etc.
             宗教、种族、部落、风俗习惯等
          5, Technical accessibility: 
             技术可及性:
             Level of education/training etc.
             教育/培训水平
          6, Competitive proximity: 
             竞争力接近
             Benefits from competing with other deliverers?
             与其他提供商竞争的好处？
          7, Degree of beneficiary distress Triage?
             受益人危难分流程度?
       B, ACCEPTABILITY / 可接受性
          1, Appreciation of benefit: 
             升值的好处:
             Understand/value the impact?  
             理解/值的影响?
          2, Approbation requirements: 
             认可要求:
             Need social approval?
             需要社会认可吗?
          3, Affordability: 
             负担能力:
             Resources to cover the “costs” 
             支付“成本”的资源
          4, CSE: 
             Locus of control, (neuroticism, self-efficacy, self-esteem? )
             控制源，（神经质，自我效能，自尊？）
             
             
                  
